If you made every wrong decision possible
when a hurricane was hitting your home,
what would you do?
In this How to Beat video, we’ll follow
the Kellers, see if we can make better decisions,
and ultimately attempt to beat the ALLIGATORS in,
CRAWL. If you think you have a better way, let
me know in the comments! If you like these how to
beat videos, consider liking and subscribing.
We start out following Haley, competing at a swim
meet in Florida. Oh man, I know what this is.
They are showing us that she’s a competitive
swimmer as a form of narrative framing in an
attempt to make it somewhat believable when
she inevitably outswims an alligator later in
the movie. But it’s not going to fool me.
All you need to do is take 5 seconds to
Google, “How fast can alligators swim”,
and you’ll come up with 20 miles per hour on
average. To put how fucked she would be in
perspective, Michael Phelps peaks at a meager 6
miles per hour. Good luck outswimming something
over 3 times as fast as Michael Phelps.
That’s like you trying to outswim another
human sprinting on land. Not going to happen.
Alligators are not to be underestimated on land
either. They may seem like slow and lethargic
beasts that just float around in the water,
but when they decide to strike they can
be shockingly quick. Humans can run about
20 miles per hour on average, and a gator can
only manage half that for very short distances.
But. They are dangerous because they have
ludicrous mode levels of acceleration and can get
up to that 10 miles per hour in the blink of an
eye. They’re ambush predators afterall. Basically,
if you aren’t paying attention to an
alligator that’s 20 or 30 feet away,
it’ll probably catch you. There are videos of
alligators catching cheetahs. One of the fastest
animals on the planet. Cheetahs can go 0-60 in 3
seconds. If they can’t get away I don’t think your
average American stands a chance. Oh and to top it
all off, they can climb trees and fences too.
Why are we even suggesting or considering
that Haley could outswim a gator when
she can’t even beat other people.
I’m sure this arrogance will fuel some
bad decision making. Look i’m not saying
we aren’t at the top of the food chain,
but nature can be a merciless vicious bitch
if you swim outside of your lane.
Back in the locker room Haley just now realizes
that a category 5 hurricane is about to hit them,
and mandatory evacuations are underway. Category 5
hurricanes can have winds exceeding 175 miles per
hour and storm surges above 20 feet. Houses get
ripped off their foundations and float down the
street at these levels, and you just now heard
about it and shrugged it off like it was just
a light tropical storm passing through?
Haley was probably too distracted playing Raid:
Shadow Legends to realize that the hurricane’s
path shifted towards her. You too, can get
dangerously immersed in Raid, exploring millions
of Champion combinations and mastering countless
tactics as you take on raid bosses, dungeon runs,
campaign battles, and PvP Arena matches.
There are 16 different factions, such as Orcs,
High Elves, Dark elves, Dwarves, and each faction
has many unique champions. With over 500 champions
total, you can build your team, develop your
Champions, and Raid until your power goes and you
realize everyone in your town was evacuated.
It’s free to play on both mobile and PC, so use
my link in the description to download it.
Later in the movie I theorize that these Crawl
alligators were being bred for intelligence and
aggression. They are basically the precursors
to Broadmaw and Gator from The Lizardmen
faction. These behemoths evolved to walk
on their hind legs and use weapons and
armor. Haley and Dave are lucky their gators
haven’t evolved into these bio-tanks yet.
Raid recently released its biggest ever
update, the Doom Tower. It’s a giant tower
with 120 floors, a bunch of Secret Challenge
Rooms, and 12 badass Bosses to take on.
There’s a bunch of new Champions and events coming
this month, including special Valentine’s Day
events, so now’s a great time to get started.
Click the link in the description to get
50,000 silver, 50 gems, 1 energy refill, 1 clan
boss key, 5 mystery shards, 1 day xp booster,
and 1 free champion, Hexweaver. But only if you’re
a new player and only for the next 30 days.
All this treasure will be waiting for you here.
Good luck, you probably will need it.
On one hand it’s tempting to be super critical
of her for being so careless and nonchalant,
on the other hand, I ignore tornado
warnings because come on, what are
the chances it actually hits me..
But, back on the first hand, hurricanes
are arguably far more dangerous. A tornado
is likely just going to destroy a mobile
home park in bumfuck Missouri, whereas a hurricane
will wipe out entire regions of coastline states.
I’d say she has a lot more reason
to be worried than I ever do.
In U.S. history, the worst Hurricane caused 10
times the damage that the worst tornado did. Oh,
and she lives in Florida where alligators
eat people, so yah, I feel justified and
in no way a hypocrite for condemning Haley whilst
habitually ignoring natural disasters myself.
A rogue wave from the hurricane
hasn’t even broken through,
and they are already losing track of each other.
From what I cared to overhear on their phone call,
the family is fractured from divorce and
animosity. They’re all somewhat repulsed
by each other, yet simultaneously share a strong
tether of kinship. Their relationships with each
other are all very complicated and stupid. Which
is why Haley hopped into her jeep to hunt down
her dad that she hasn’t talked to in forever,
because he went no contact on her sister.
That’s only when it’s a Sharknado.
Haley gets held up at a blockade where
they’re telling everyone to turn around because
the Hurricane is heading straight towards them.
It’s already getting pretty bad out by now. It’s
tempting to head back but she looks at her phone.
Her dad’s face on it pulling her heartstrings.
She can’t leave, not without him.
With the confidence a jeep instills, and
her above average swimming capabilities,
she boldly decides to go head on into the
mouth of the hurricane to find him.
Why didn’t he board up his home? It’s common
practice and this guy is a home contractor.
Though it might be asking too much from
him considering he doesn’t understand
how to operate a phone or read the news.
This family screwed up on a bunch of things way
earlier on. Florida is one of the most
hurricane-prone places you could live,
they definitely should have
had a plan in place already.
Usually you have days of notice before a hurricane
hits unless your head is in the ground, so there
should be plenty of time to do what you need to
do and get out in time. The Kellers have money
and transportation, so there is no reason they
should be staying instead of evacuating.
They should have checked in on each other,
in person if necessary, before the hurricane
showed up. This last minute, oh a hurricane is
making landfall and I don’t know where my dad is,
shit is.. Probably more realistic
than i’d like to admit.
After getting a proper headcount they should
have made sure that their valuables and
important documents are either collected or
stored in bolted down waterproof containers,
preferably in the attic. Their cars
are stocked up with emergency supplies,
have gas and are in good shape. Their
electricity and gas to the house are
shut off so it doesn’t flood and burn down
at the same time, which would really suck.
As well as storm shutters installed over the
windows with any weak points reinforced.
But most importantly, they need to
have firearms or chainsaws on hand
just in case sharks start taking flight
in the 150 mile and hour winds..
In all seriousness, wouldn’t sharks swimming in
the floodwaters be a big problem? Florida does
have a lot of sharks on it’s coast which attack
and eat the occasional person who swims out too
far. Turns out, not really. Sharks have an organ
called the lateral line that can sense pressure
changes indicative of impending hurricanes. When
they sense these pressure changes they swim to
deeper water to avoid getting washed ashore into
some retiree’s beachside pool or stuck flapping
on the highway when the tide pulls out.
Well what about the 1.3 million alligators
that live all throughout Florida? Doesn’t
this have potential to form a gator-nado,
or a gator-iccane, gator-cane? Again, not
really. Attacks in Florida are very rare,
with 24 confirmed fatal alligator attacks
since 1973. I'd bet most of those deaths
were caused by idiots trying to feed
or take up-close pictures of them.
Despite their walnut sized brain, they aren’t
stupid when it comes to weathering storms either.
Like sharks, they detect the pressure
changes of an impending hurricane and
hunker down in their natural habitats.
Doesn’t mean they can’t end up in your backyard
due to massive flooding though.
Or find them in your dining room.
These sorts of situations are statistically
rare enough that it’d be reasonable for Haley
to not really expect a similar encounter.
Still, having firearms for defense during natural
disaster situations isn’t a bad idea. Besides
potential encounters with predatory wildlife,
there are lots of opportunists and criminals
that would take advantage of the chaos. Never
hurts to have some big iron on your hip.
No sign of him at the condo, his truck is gone
too so he must be out somewhere else. Unless this
dude is a complete psychopath, he wouldn’t just
leave Sugar behind. She could wait for him to
come back, but the lack of storm shutters and
emergency supplies, the unanswered calls, the half
drunk bottle of bourbon on the table, all suggest
this dude got snapped up. If he was going to get
supplies, he should have done it days ago.
Knowing about their other house from
the divorce, it’s likely he would be
there doing something. He sure as hell isn’t on
the job right now. Haley should leave a note,
grab Sugar, and head to their old house
immediately while sending Beth an update.
Or she could instead take a stroll down memory
lane and reminisce about a time when she actually
won swim competitions and had a strong loving
father-daughter relationship. Did she all of the
sudden forget that a category five hurricane is
about to rain hell on them and that her dad is
potentially in a life-threatening condition?
No, shit. It’s because everyone evacuated,
because there’s a hurricane. Finally she wises
up and heads to their old house leftover from
the divorce. At least Haley is providing text
updates. If something bad happens to her,
which is increasingly likely with the
cat 5 hurricane arriving in force by now,
Beth will at least have a last known location she
can send to rescuers once the storm passes.
His truck ‘is’ here, which is a good sign
because we know he didn’t get swept into a
flooded ravine while trying to escape. If that
was the case, well, there would be no finding
him and with how ferocious these alligators
are he would certainly be dead meat.
None of these people bothered to board up the
windows or even shut the doors to their house
either. What are they even doing?
There’s no sign of her dad so far.
Haley calls his phone one more time,
and not only is the ringtone volume on,
but it has cell service, received multiple
messages from concerned family members,
and had evacuation alerts. If only
he put his phone in his pocket.
Speaking of, why do older folks not keep
their phone on them most of the time?
Your phone is about as useful as a rock if you
don’t have it on you. Yah yah, they don’t feel
the need to be connected at all times like an
addicted millennial would, but at least keep it
on you during a fucking natural disaster.
Haley’s investigation continues, as she spots a
bunch of tools next to the sink. Don’t tell me
he was doing some last minute plumbing. Could
the screenwriters really not think of a better
reason he’d be missing and unconscious.
That’s why you board up the windows, in case you
were wondering. And the garage door is up too.
Does Barry not understand the
concept of shutting doors?
Like a good doggo, Sugar alerts Haley to the
crawl space entrance. As stupid as it seems,
all clues are pointing to him being down
there. With the mud, dead animals, debris,
and god knows what else down there, I’d think
taking a minute to put some gloves, proper pants
and shoes on would be wise. I gotta believe
she still has some old clothes here. Or you
could just go for it in capris and sandals.
I know it’s your dad and all, but if he really
is down here, he’s definitely a candidate
for a Darwin award. At some point you just
have to cut the dead weight off, like
his wife did when she divorced him.
Haley keeps trudging onwards, stumbling
into more clues which eventually lead her
to Barry lying in the mud unconscious.
I was really holding out for there being some
legitimate reason he’s down here. Or
that he wasn’t down here in the first
place but the gator dragged him down here.
Nope. It’s now confirmed. Barry Pepper,
during a category 5 hurricane, was in the crawl
space of a house nobody lives in, trying to fix
the plumbing for a sink nobody uses.
I have. No words. I think we could probably
wrap this video up and say that we could have
beaten the gators in crawl by not being total
fucking idiots. But let’s just continue as
if Barry was doing everything correctly,
but somehow he was knocked unconscious by a
flying 2x4 and dragged by a gator under the
crawl space to feed on him later, where Haley
with her supreme detective work finds him.
The most obvious animal that would cause
a bite wound like that is an alligator,
considering the size of the bite and.. all
the gator signs around their home.
While alligators aren’t known to attack unprovoked
or prey upon humans, it can still happen if they
feel threatened or you enter their nest. Some
alligators may have been washed up to their house
and found a new home in the crawl space. Barry
crawling into their nest probably both threatened
and startled them so they attacked.
Some sources say that alligators are more scared
of humans than we are of them, and that’s why
human attacks are rare. I’m calling BS on that.
I’m definitely more scared of them which
is why I stay way out of their reach.
These things attack lions. And they’re
scared of us. Yah, okay bro.
They don’t fuck around when you’re in their
territory. Just go on YouTube or LiveLeak and
type in alligator attacks. I still remember
that story of a 2 year old getting snatched
and killed by an alligator at a Disney resort
in Florida. The dad attacked the alligator
but couldn’t stop the alligator from dragging
his son into the lagoon. Truly horrific.
While alligators are a serious threat, the bigger
issue is Barry’s current condition worsening.
Haley did a good job by checking for a pulse and
listening for breathing, and luckily he’s got both
because emergency services won’t be responding.
This isn’t a national guard commercial, no gung-ho
20 year old is going to rappel out of a blackhawk
helicopter in the nick of time just for you.
First thing she should do is thoroughly
check the bite wound to ensure that he
doesn’t have severe bleeding. An adult male
will die if they lose half a gallon of blood.
Pulse and respiration are worthless if
he’s going to bleed out in 5 to 10 minutes.
Barry doesn’t appear to be hemorrhaging.
Onto the next potential problem.
If the bacterial infection caused by all the
rotting flesh in the gator’s mouth causes
septic shock, which it seems to be doing. If he
loses 15-20% of his blood. If his neck, head,
chest wall or lungs got injured. If he had
fluid build up in his lungs. Or if anything
else happens that seizes up his respiration
and heart rate, he’s in deep shit.
If his breathing stopped, she’d have to drag
him out of there and drive through the low flood
waters to the nearest operational hospital while
giving him a rescue breath every 5 to 6 seconds.
Even 5 to 10 minutes without oxygen to the brain
can cause serious and irreversible brain damage.
I don’t think Haley could effectively do this.
At minimum, Barry would have brain damage,
but most likely would be dead.
If his pulse stopped too,
doing all that ‘and’ having to give
chest compressions is just not going
to be possible. Barry would 100% be dead.
While it looked like the house was situated on
a bit of a hill, this hurricane is just kicking
off so flood waters could quickly rise above
it and drown him if she doesn’t get him to high
ground. But that’s just part of the problem. If
the floodwaters reach 3 feet or higher, she won’t
be able to make the drive to a hospital without
getting lifted and swept away. That is, unless
you got the keys to one of these bad boys.
To state the obvious, she needs to get him out of
there ASAP. Which is a lot easier said than done.
She needs to be weary of his injuries and not just
yank him which could worsen the situation.
As an ex-volunteer firefighter who’s practiced
rescue carries and drags, manually dragging a
lifeless human that weighs 50 more pounds than
you through debris-filled mud in a confined space
where you can’t stand up at all is very difficult.
And she’s barefooted with muddy hands. Again,
maybe slippers weren’t the best choice when
trying to rescue your dad in a hurricane.
Since he’s breathing and has a pulse, the
absolute best thing she could do is help
him regain consciousness. He probably passed
out due to the pain of his collar bone being
snapped like a wishbone, the emotional
stress of the attack, loss of blood,
dehydration, and possibly septic shock depending
on how long it’s been since the attack.
Haley should loosen any constrictive clothing,
lift his legs above his heart level to aid in
blood circulation, and get him some water.
Rain water, not that sewage flowing in.
They say not to shake and slap someone that passed
out, but I think Barry’s an exception.
He ‘should’ regain consciousness and can
then crawl his own dumbass out of there.
If that doesn’t work, finding a tarp to
put him on will reduce the friction and
make dragging him substantially easier. Which she
conveniently has nearby. Good thinking Haley.
Welp ladies and gents, I think we did it. I
think we successfully saved Barry Pepper from
drowning and getting eaten by alligators. Just
a few more steps and we can get him in the car
and take him to a hospital where he can get sewed
up, take some antibiotics and be good as new.
Oh come on. An alligator isn’t going to bust
through a wooden staircase like the kool aid man.
Haley is lucky this alligator already has a
belly full of human meat, because they can move
way faster than that. Remember, these
things can pounce cheetahs. Haley trying
to pull 180 pounds of dead weight in the mud
with her bare hands and feet is a joke.
If she can’t run, literally, what options does
she have? What should anyone do when confronted
by an alligator like this. Well, basically
what she did, as futile as it would be.
Unloading a Benelli M4 full of
slugs into its face is your best
bet. Crawling away as quickly as possible is your
second best bet. You can’t puff your chest out,
make loud noises, or play dead with gators.
Your only chance to survive is to fight back
before it catches you and starts death rolling
you, and the only weakness you can realistically
exploit is gouging it’s eyes. The problem with
this strat, is that it’s eyes are located behind
it’s giant pissed off mouth. I’m starting to
think the internet is bullshitting us about
how to defend against an alligator attack.
If you, a tuk tuk driver making an oil delivery..
For some reason just go with me here,
rounded the corner of a backstreet and
were confronted with an American Abrams tank,
according to the internet, you should try to
board it and spray paint it’s optics while it’s
trying to crush you under it’s treads. Unless
you’re Dominic Toretto, that ain’t happenin.
Yah let me juke it’s business end, baseball slide
up next to it, board the prehistoric monster like
a fucking bull rider, thumb it’s eyeballs before
it rolls it’s 800 pounds of weight onto you, then
dismount the writhing pissed off beast without its
tail sweeping your legs and shattering them into a
hundred pieces. What could possibly go wrong.
Then again, They don’t really
have any other options.
If it did explode towards them and bite down on
his legs with it’s 3000 pounds per square inch of
jaw strength, it will crush his femurs and it’s
inch and a half to 2 inch long teeth will sink
deep into his flesh, enough to potentially
sever arteries. If that didn’t wake him up,
I don’t know what would. With that kind of jaw
strength, it’s impossible to pry it’s mouth
open and get free. If there’s water nearby it’ll
immediately drag him into it and death roll him
until he drowns. If there’s no water nearby, it’ll
just roll him on the ground until he dies..
Once a gator starts death rolling you, it’s
pretty much over. It is called death rolling for
a reason. It disorients you, knocks the air out
of you, breaks your bones, rips your limbs off,
and the power and speed of the thrashing makes
it near impossible to use whatever non-ripped
off limbs you have left to fight back.
This would all happen in a few seconds.
The gator would then take his lifeless body
back to it’s den where it would wait for his
corpse to start rotting before tearing pieces
off to eat. Gator don’t play no shit.
With no Benelli on hand, I think she
should just drop her dad and use him
as a tasty distraction so she can escape with
Sugar. Haley’s much more merciful than I am,
summons some adrenaline strength and starts
hauling Barry back the way she came.
Her wardrobe continues to malfunction,
and her phone falls out of her capri pants
fashionably small pockets. She really
didn’t think this outfit through.
This dude even had a radio telling him
a hurricane was coming while he was
plumbing in the crawl space. Jesus christ.
Haley pulls Barry back to where she found him,
which was conveniently blocked off just
enough for them to get through but not
the gator. I’m surprised she remembered how
to get back in this maze of crawl space with
a gator snapping at her dad's feet.
The gator isn’t the only thing they need
to worry about, that hurricane that nobody
seems to give a shit about is picking up.
Dave, yah i’ll start using his real name
now, is just now regaining consciousness,
‘after’ pulling him out of the gators
jaws. Good timing bro. Take your time.
Soaking the jacket to get him some water
is pretty clever. Haley is scoring about
a 7/10 right now. I had to knock some
points off for the slippers and capris,
but she’s been pretty resourceful. Must have
gotten more of her mothers genetics.
Of course he would say something like that, being
a dumbass is perfectly on brand. He then says,
“what’s happening with this storm”, oh, you
mean the category 5 hurricane you completely
disregarded? Yah, it’s getting pretty bad.
I liked this guy better unconscious.
To be fair, he’s probably in a bit
of shock, as evidenced by him not
realizing his leg was snapped in two. He
really needs to get a splint on that.
Oh no, Haley’s phone received a message, now she
has to go get it so she can text her friend back.
I’m about to deduct her score to 6/10 here.
Going for your phone is just too much risk for
too little gain. Who are you going to call? Beth?
Her inability to rescue you should be obvious.
The police or animal control? Good luck with that,
I'm sure they’ll want to risk their lives fishing
alligators out of your basement during a hurricane
in this fictional world where gators are this
cunning, aggressive, and deadly.
Hell, in this fictional world,
I don’t understand why anyone would ever live
in Florida. It’d be like living in Jurassic Park
with the power out. Nope, I think I can deal
with a few cold winter months instead.
Look, I'd get it if your uncle was Jocko Willink,
who would swim through the hurricane's flood
waters to get to you, choking out any gators that
got in his way with his biceps. Actually, he’d
probably answer the phone and just say good.
Dad went missing in a category 5 hurricane?
Found him unconscious and bleeding
out from an alligator attack?
Got attacked by more alligators and now you’re
both trapped in a flooding crawl space.
They have the opportunity to reevaluate
why you made such horrible decisions.
We all know they won’t though.
Time for galaxy brain move. They could just
break through the wood floor above them. It’s so
obvious and simple, I would’ve thought that even
Dave and Haley could figure this out, but they
never do. With them being trapped in a crawl
space being so central to the plot, why wouldn’t
you choose a house that had a concrete slab over
the basement so it’s actually realistic.
From this shot it just looks like some old wooden
planks held in by rusty nails. They could probably
lay on their backs and kick them loose. Well,
Haley could. Dave could probably kick some
boards loose with one leg though. They wouldn’t
even need to kick them loose, later on in the
movie we see Dave crawl a few feet from their
safe space to grab his tool belt and shovel.
They should easily be able to pry and push
the boards above them loose and escape. Dave
is a home contractor for fucks sake, how was
this option never tried this entire movie.
Yep, Haley decides that securing her Iphone is the
best method for getting out of here. Could she
at least go around her dad instead of crawling
over his shattered leg. I don’t like Dave at
all, but he’s your dad and there’s no reason
to risk kneeing his fractured tibia.
Her dad tells her to go around to the left,
because he thinks it’s safer. You literally
just became conscious. You have no idea where
the alligator is or what has happened since
you got bitten. What would possibly make you
think that that is a safer route? If anything,
taking the longer, more convoluted maze route
is far more dangerous than a straight shot to
the phone where you can quickly backtrack back
past the pipes if necessary.
After giving her shitty directions,
Professor Dave then starts doling out some
unfounded alligator facts to Haley. Thanks,
but I don’t think i’m going to be taking
advice from the dude who put himself in
a precarious position and got bitten. I’d bet
my life his gator-facts are bullshit too.
He first tells her that alligators can’t hear
out of the water. Patently false. Then he
says that they can see in the dark well. That’s
actually true, they do have great night vision,
but still, it's pretty common sense. His last
piece of advice is that alligators aren’t as fast
out of the water. This is technically true,
they are faster in the water. But when you’re
forced to crawl barefeet in the mud, they are
definitely way faster than you. Telling Haley
this is horribly misleading and just gives her
extremely dangerous levels of confidence.
I’m surprised Dave lived long
enough to have kids.